[Music]
okay so I was listening to the wired
podcast this morning and they said
something that really nailed the way I
think about a lot of emerging
Technologies especially AI what they
said was WWDC which we just had from
Apple basically proved that AI is a
feature not a
product and this hit so hard for me
because that's a that's the exact
question that we've been asking
ourselves for so long here about new
stuff is it a feature or a product so
I'll give you an example do you remember
Clubhouse we've talked about this before
but Clubhouse back in the 2020s like the
pandemic era it was this meteoric rise
to success there was this platform that
was just live audio stage events that
would disappear after they were over and
that's kind of all it was it was super
simple but with everybody sitting at
home it blew up in popularity it Skyrock
to the top of the App Store everyone
starts using it it had major interviews
happen on it major new weekly shows were
created on it there were huge famous
people participating in clubhouses
regularly but fast forward literally one
year maybe two and suddenly Spotify had
built this feature into their app uh
Discord had built the feature into their
app they built stages uh slack had built
it into their app even Twitter had built
it into their app they've got spaces now
and so suddenly it was just a feature
inside of these larger apps so the
question became is Clubhouse this huge
thing that came out of nowhere is this a
product or is it just a feature and it
turned out the success of all the
features and all the other apps I built
it in meant that Clubhouse would just
die like and a lot of the other ones
eventually ended up dying I think we
still have Twitter spaces but generally
it just became a feature and there are
actually many examples of these which is
why the product versus feature question
still keeps coming up over and over
again so now the newest question is AI a
product or a feature because we got to
see what it looked like as a standalone
product like we just had in 2024 we had
the Humane AI pin which was a dedicated
piece of Hardware specifically for
engaging with an AI we got the rabbit R1
another device that promised to be like
this physical embodiment of an assistant
you have everywhere now both these
devices were bad and they didn't work
very well but let's say they did let's
say they actually worked well and we're
fine that would be AI as a product and
you could even consider like going to
the chat GPT website and using it there
as AI as a product but then fast forward
now to just a few months later and we
just had Apple's WWDC and we also just
had Google IO and very different
approach like look what happened with
apple just like clockwork they went
through and systematically added all
these AI features sprinkled throughout a
bunch of its operating systems so for
example in inside of any app with the
ability to write text you now have these
writing tools that pop up that are
powered by these new language models
that can help you summarize or proofread
or change the tone or style of your
writing and then there's also a new Siri
you know powered by these language
models again so it can hold
conversations better and understand
context better and use a semantic index
to parse info about various files and
things on your device and bring them
into series understanding you can
literally generate images as a feature
on your device you can generate emojis
the list goes on but the point is it's
clearly a very different way of thinking
about AI for the consumer where it's
just one of the features built into the
thing that you use now I realized this
isn't a Perfect Analogy I think probably
the biggest flaw being that you know
when they integrated these features like
when slack when when Twitter built
spaces when they built these features
they didn't integrate Clubhouse into
those bigger websites they actually just
took the IDE idea of what Clubhouse is
which is just a live audio event on
stage and they built it themselves into
their own apps so Clubhouse was left to
die but in this specific case with apple
it's actually a combination of two
things it's a them building a bunch of
their own models to do a lot of these
things on device but then also them
literally building a chat GPT rapper
into a lot of their OS so chat gbt
actually gets more users this way so I
thought this was fun to think about now
now there is no answer yet as far as is
AI actually a feature or a product which
one will win which one will lose we
don't know but I think if history is any
indication I do think that more people
in the long run are going to end up
using this AI stuff as a feature more
than going to like a standalone thing
like I was looking back for other
examples of this and I honestly found it
really hard to find any examples of the
other way around happening where the
individual product becomes far more
successful than the same idea being
baked as a feature into something larger
like I think Tik Tok is maybe the best
example of this opposite version where
Tik Tok is it's it's a vertical video
Carousel with an algorithm that learns
really quickly what video you want to
see next right that's what Tik Tok is
like we've seen Instagram reals develop
that exact same thing now it's a huge
feature for them same thing with YouTube
shorts we've got all of YouTube but
inside of YouTube is this vertically
scrolling Carousel with an algorithm but
I still think today we would say Tik Tok
is the most popular version of that idea
so the Standalone version is winning
currently over it being built in as a
feature and maybe Snapchat is another
one kind of like Snapchat stories was
one of the biggest features in Snapchat
and then that kind of got ripped into
being a feature everywhere else like
everyone has stories but Snapchat by
itself is doing well but anyway the
question is do you have to get all the
way to the level of snap Snapchat or Tik
Tok in order to be successful as a
standalone product to defeat the fact
that your thing could just become a
feature somewhere but yeah that is now
the question with AI it just struck me
as such a difference in approach between
the product and the feature version of
it and uh it also struck me that yeah it
feels like rabbit and Humane were kind
of doomed from the start because there's
no way they would also develop all the
other benefits of the big things those
being smartphones but also one more
quick thing I wanted to highlight that I
don't think got as much attention as it
maybe deserved which is all of these
models that we've been talking about
with WWDC all the models Under the
Umbrella of Apple intelligence the
diffusion model the image generation
model the language models are all built
by Apple like there was a whole moment
on Twitter with a lot of confusion over
just how integrated chat GPT is into iOS
I think it's actually not really that
integrated at all so Apple had to go
through the work of obviously making all
these models but also training them all
and so we've asked Apple about this
they've had to go through finding
publicly available data and Licensing
and doing that whole dance and spending
the millions and millions of dollars
required to make these models work so
that is a really higher barrier to entry
but it's only the once in a while that
the request is complex enough or deals
with enough real world data which isn't
in Apple's training that it actually
asks okay can I go out to chat GPT and
it asks every single time which feels
about as integrated as it gets but
generally I think this is going to be
something that's really hard for other
companies for any new companies to pull
off this might be the last big set of
models we get to see so unless you're
Apple or Google or Microsoft or open AI
or any of the other massive ones that
are safe because they'll get integrated
now you probably don't have much of a
shot but either way this been really
interesting to think about AI is it a
product or a feature can it be both or
does it have to be one or the other and
one wins and the other loses let me know
what you think in the comment section
below we'll hang out there either way
thanks for watching thanks for
subscribing and I'll catch you guys in
the next one peace
[Music]